README.md, before:

# python-git

Automate the boring git stuff with python

## Motivation

Whenever I wanted to see the status of all my git repos I have to fire up the
`git-cmd.exe` shell on windows, navigate to each folder and then do a `git status`.
I have to do this both at home and at work.

But I got quickly tired of it. So I decided to make this tool to give me a quick
report so I can see what is ahead and what's behind and what's ahead at a glance.
In short, what needs attention so as to avoid those troubling merge conflicts.

## Requirements

The only requirements in terms of software is `send2trash` which helps take care of cleaning up stuff.
Other thing you need is a computer with `git` either accessible from the command line (which means its in your system path) or as a standalone file somewhere in your system.
If you're working on PC without installation rights, you can use a portable `git` and `python-git` will work just fine.

You can get a portable git version from [here](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

Just unzip it and place it somewhere on your disk. Later (during initialization), you'll need to tell `python-git` where this file is located.

## Installation

```python

  `pip install https://codeload.github.com/immensity/python-git/zip/master`

  `pip install python-git --upgrade`
```

## Initial setup

1. To setup, you need to look for where `pygit` is installed in your system. If you're using anaconda it would likely be in `C:\ProgramData\Anaconda3\Lib\site-packages\pygit`. then issue the command

   `$ python <full_installation_path>\main.py`.

 For finding files in your system I recommend [everything](https://www.voidtools.com/)

## Usage

1. Activate python environment on command line.

   `import pygit # should return nothing if all goes well`

1. Now you need to specify exactly two things:

      1. where your git repos are
      1. where your `git-cmd.exe` is located.

1. The location of your `git` repositories. You may do this by passing it a list of strings on the command line. Each string represents a full path name to single directory. You may also just provide a single directory which holds multiple git repositories and `pygit` will grab all the repositories for your. If you have a master directory that holds multiple `git` repositories, `pygit` can also take the full path name of this master directory and then index the git repositories it finds there. It won't index those directories that are not git repos. It is also possible to tell `pygit` not to index certain directories by specifying the starting string of the directory name. This is referred to as a `rule`. Directories matching such rules will not be touched.
1. The location of a `git-cmd.exe` executable. This only applies if `git` is not accessible from your system `cmd`. That is, `git` is not in your system path. More on this below.

In case things change (perhaps you moved folders around) and you want to reset your folders,
just redo the initialization step

To see all available repositories run

   `pygit.show_repos()`

This command shows a list of all available repositories in the format

   `repository_id: repository_name: repository_directory_path`

To load a particular repository use

   `pygit.load(repo_id_or_name)`

where `repo_id` is a string-valued id assigned to that particular repo. The first value in the `show_repos` command's output.

The `load\(\)` command returns a `Commands` object for that repo, which provides a gateway for issuing git commands on the repository

Operations that can be performed on `Commands` object are shown below.

```python

   Commands().fetch() # perform fetch
   Commands().status() # see status
   Commands().add_all() # stage all changes for commit
   Commands().commit(message='minor changes') # commit changes. Press enter to accept default message
   Commands().push() # perform push action
   Commands().pull() # perform pull request
   Commands().add_commit() # add and commit at once
```

### Batch Operations

Pygit provides some functions for performing batch operations on your repositories.

   `pygit.load_multiple(*args)`

loads a set of repositories. You could decide to only load only 2 of 10 repositories. Perhaps you need to perform similar actions
on those two alone. As an example

   `pygit.load_set("2", "5")`

returns a  `generator`  of  `Commands`  objects for repositories 2 and 5. Afterwards you can iterate over the repos like below

```python
   for each in pygit.load_set("2", "5"):
      each.add_commit()
```

   `pygit.all_status()`

performs a `status` command on all your repositories. The result is written to a text file. The text file opens automatically.
The name of the file shows the date and time of the status request. All batch status request is written to its a separate file.
Call it a snapshot of your repo status if you will
Those items which are out of sync with their remote counterpart (by being ahead or being behind) are also highlighted as needing attention.

   `pygit.pull_all()`

performs a `pull` request on all your repositories at once. Its  `return`  value is  None.

   `pygit.push_all()`

performs a `push` action on all your repositories at once. Its  `return` value is  None.

   `pygit.load_all()`

returns a  `generator`  of  `Commands`  object for every repository.

## To do

1. Refactor `initialize()` function
1. Add `git-bash.exe`
1. Implement `Commands.branch()`
1. Refactor tests
1. Auto-run test after importation to make sure every other thing works fine.
1. Define an update function that updates the repo dictionaries for the case when a new repo is added but the overall directory structure remains unchanged.

## Update git check locations

1. C:\Program Files\Git\cmd\git.exe
1. C:\Program Files (x86)\Git\cmd\git.exe
1. C:\Program Files\Git\cmd\git.exe
1. C:\Users\Chidimma\AppData\Local\Programs\Git\cmd\git.exe

Commit message:

refactor main to use pathlib module

README.md, after:

# python-git

Automate the boring git stuff with python

## Motivation

Whenever I wanted to see the status of all my git repos I have to fire up the
`git-cmd.exe` shell on windows, navigate to each folder and then do a `git status`.
I have to do this both at home and at work.

But I got quickly tired of it. So I decided to make this tool to give me a quick
report so I can see what is ahead and what's behind and what's ahead at a glance.
In short, what needs attention so as to avoid those troubling merge conflicts.

## Requirements

The only requirements in terms of software is `send2trash` which helps take care of cleaning up stuff.
Other thing you need is a computer with `git` either accessible from the command line (which means its in your system path) or as a standalone file somewhere in your system.
If you're working on PC without installation rights, you can use a portable `git` and `python-git` will work just fine.

You can get a portable git version from [here](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

Just unzip it and place it somewhere on your disk. Later (during initialization), you'll need to tell `python-git` where this file is located.

## Installation

```python
  pip install https://codeload.github.com/immensity/python-git/zip/master
  pip install python-git --upgrade
```

## Initial setup

1. To setup, you need to look for the location of `pygit` on your system. If you're using anaconda it would likely be in `C:\ProgramData\Anaconda3\Lib\site-packages\pygit`. then issue the command

   `$ python <full_installation_path>\main.py`.

 For finding files in your system I recommend [everything](https://www.voidtools.com/)

## Usage

1. Activate python environment on command line.

   `import pygit # should return nothing if all goes well`

1. Now you need to specify exactly two things:

      1. where your git repos are
      1. where your `git-cmd.exe` is located.

1. The location of your `git` repositories. You may do this by passing it a list of strings on the command line. Each string represents a full path name to single directory. You may also just provide a single directory which holds multiple git repositories and `pygit` will grab all the repositories for your. If you have a master directory that holds multiple `git` repositories, `pygit` can also take the full path name of this master directory and then index the git repositories it finds there. It won't index those directories that are not git repos. It is also possible to tell `pygit` not to index certain directories by specifying the starting string of the directory name. This is referred to as a `rule`. Directories matching such rules will not be touched.
1. The location of a `git-cmd.exe` executable. This only applies if `git` is not accessible from your system `cmd`. That is, `git` is not in your system path. More on this below.

## My personal setup

```python

   python "C:\ProgramData\Anaconda3\Lib\site-packages\pygit\main.py" -g "C:\Program Files\Git\git-cmd.exe" -m "D:\git"

```

In case things change (perhaps you moved folders around or you add a new git repo) and you want to reset your folders,
just redo the initialization step

To see all available repositories run

   `pygit.show_repos()`

This command shows a list of all available repositories in the format

   `repository_id: repository_name: repository_directory_path`

To load a particular repository use

   `pygit.load(repo_id_or_name)`

where `repo_id` is a string-valued id assigned to that particular repo. The first value in the `show_repos` command's output.

The `load(input_string)` command returns a `Commands` object for that repo, which provides a gateway for issuing git commands on the repository

Operations that can be performed on `Commands` object are shown below.

```python

   Commands().fetch() # perform fetch
   Commands().status() # see status
   Commands().add_all() # stage all changes for commit
   Commands().commit(message='minor changes') # commit changes. Press enter to accept default message
   Commands().push() # perform push action
   Commands().pull() # perform pull request
   Commands().add_commit() # add and commit at once
```

### Batch Operations

Pygit provides some functions for performing batch operations on your repositories.

   `pygit.load_multiple(*args)`

loads a set of repositories. You could decide to only load only 2 of 10 repositories. Perhaps you need to perform similar actions
on those two alone. As an example

   `pygit.load_set("2", "5")`

returns a  `generator`  of  `Commands`  objects for repositories 2 and 5. Afterwards you can iterate over the repos like below

```python
   for each in pygit.load_set("2", "5"):
      each.add_commit()
```

   `pygit.all_status()`

performs a `status` command on all your repositories. The result is written to a text file. The text file opens automatically.
The name of the file shows the date and time of the status request. All batch status request is written to its a separate file.
Call it a snapshot of your repo status if you will
Those items which are out of sync with their remote counterpart (by being ahead or being behind) are also highlighted as needing attention.

   `pygit.pull_all()`

performs a `pull` request on all your repositories at once. Its  `return`  value is  None.

   `pygit.push_all()`

performs a `push` action on all your repositories at once. Its  `return` value is  None.

   `pygit.load_all()`

returns a  `generator`  of  `Commands`  object for every repository.

## To do

1. Refactor `initialize()` function
1. Add `git-bash.exe`
1. Implement `Commands.branch()`
1. Refactor tests
1. Auto-run test after importation to make sure every other thing works fine.
1. Define an update function that updates the repo dictionaries for the case when a new repo is added but the overall directory structure remains unchanged.

## Update git check locations

1. C:\Program Files\Git\cmd\git.exe
1. C:\Program Files (x86)\Git\cmd\git.exe
1. C:\Program Files\Git\cmd\git.exe
1. C:\Users\Chidimma\AppData\Local\Programs\Git\cmd\git.exe
